# SELECT HIM, AND YOU GET ME

President-elect Bill Clinton’s advisers originally considerer his wife Hillary 
, who can make (him) impressive 40-minute speech without notes, as their secret weapon. Hillary had her tole, her (* ne)-table ad her own staff in the election campaign, but few campaigners people would ask her why she wasn’t the candidate, why she herself (wasn’t) running. «Elect him, and you get me, « has Hillary Clinton’s usual retort. «Bey one, get the second free,» declared Covernor Bill Clinton, (* ) the small southern stats of Arkansas, from (*obile) rostrums.

In the final frenzied days of the presidential race, whenever the Democratic candidate, suffer-( * g ) from allergy and strained vocal chords, lost (his) voice completely, his wife would take over. (She) attacked her husband’s challengers with the (skill) and rhetoric of an experienced lawyer. Fol-(* wing) her addresses the crowd would roar, « Bil-lary! Bil-lary!» The people of their home (* wn) Little Rock paraded signs, «Hillary for White House» on their car bumpers as if it was (*e), and not her husband, who was the chief rival (F) Republican President George Bush and independent candidate Rosss Perot.

In one of his interviews Bill Clinton said it was Hillary who persuaded him to run for the presidency. He also admitted that his wife was far better organized, more in control, more eloquent and more intelligent. The latter is especially remarkable because it comes from a man who, ()spired early in his life by John F.Kennedy’s example, had made a public and political career ()is life-long ambition. Success came to him early, ()o: at 31 he was elected the Governor of Arkansas for the first time.

But it is not only her husband who speaks for Hillary. Nobody knew anything about Barbara Bush, now dubbed «America;s Grandma» and ()e «silver Fox», before her husband George ()epped up from vice-presidency to presidency. ()olumes were written about Hillary Clinton, her () and her character, long before she became America’s first lady.

#LOVE AND CARRER

In 1988 and 1991, The National Law Journal included Hillary’s name among America’s 100 most influential lawyers. Until recently she made approximately three times more money than her governar-husband and was the main bread-winner in the family. She is 45 and a mother of 12-yers-old daughter christened Chelsea in memory of a romantic sojourn in London. For ten years, the lines of peer in Arkansas ran 14  blocks from the governor’s mansion to the red brick Rose building where his wife specialized in legal defense of trade marks and copyrights, at the same time being a member of the board of several major companies.

Hillary is also known to have inspired the education reform in Arkansas. As a result of these innovations, teachers now have to take proficiency tests. At the begging, when Hillary went to schools to promote her ideas, she was hisses at, but eventually she  managed to win the majority over to her side. Also, Hillary is quite well known as a public figure who testified before Congress o several occasions to promote family and children’s legislation. She was elected President of the Children’s Defence Fund.

Americans know quite a lot about Hillary’s early career, too. In 1969, Hillary Rodham, 22, born in Chicago, graduated with honours from Wellesley College and delivered an extraordinary graduation peach on the students’ behalf. She was admitted to Yale Law School and met her future husband there. It happened when she was walking down a corridor during an intermission and heard a strange, persuasive voice saying, «And not only that, we grow the biggest watermelons in the world!». «Who is that?» she asked. «That’s Bill Clinton from Arkansas, and that’s all ever talks about,» her friend replied.

#LOVE AND CARRER (3)

A short time ago Bill Clinton admitted public that he took to Hillary at first sight b() had very ambivalent feeling about getting () volved with her. On the very first-date he told he() she was a great person and could have a great life. But he had to go home, because «it’s just who  I am.» Indeed, upon graduation from Yale Bill left for home, and Hillary made America() history the following year when the House of Representatives invited her to work on the Ju()diciary Committee inquiry preparing the impeachment case against President Richard Nixon. For six months the group worked 2() hours a day, and finally Nixon had to resig() under public pressure.

Nevertheless, Hillary Rodham gave up her dreams of a brilliant career and law practice in New York or Washington and mover to Arkansas to marry Bill. Love triumphed. Astrologist say they where ration and emotions are dispute Scorpions yield to emotions. Hillary’s birthday is in late October.

And yet she did not change her maiden name after the wedding. In 1980, when Hillary became partner in the Rose Law Firm, Arkansas news paper announced  Governor Clinton and Hillary Rodham had a daughter& The patriarchal Southerners were incensed by the Northern feminist;s behavior. That year Bill was not re-elected Governor. soon, without waiting for him to ask her about it, Hillary changed her name ti Clinton. At the same time, she changed her entire image: dyed her hair blond, gave up horn-rim()med spectacles for contact lenses and developed an interest in fashions. Hillary did her best to save her husband’s career.

When he last ran for the governoship in Arkansas, Hillary was Bill Clinton’s political strategist. In the presidential campaign, too, she played first fiddle analyzing her husband’s programmatic statements, potting weak points and helping to correct mistakes. She is said to have been a key figure in the room where candidate Clinton prepared for his most trying test, the television debates with President Bush. All that has not prevented the Americans from arguing whether Hillary was an asset or an obstacle on Bill’s road to the White House.

#Report of infidelity

All Americans agree there was at least one critical moment in this year’s election campaign when Bill Clinton’s fate was in his wife’s hands. It happened in january when a certain Jennifer Flowers, a cabaret singer in Little Rock, published scandalous revelations about her alleged 12-years  affair with Governor Clinton and played tapes of her phone conversations with him on CNN.

Many American presidents had been accused of infidelity before but neither Roosevelt, nor Eisenhower, nor John F. Kennedy took part in talk shows or had to answer questions about their love life before millions of TV viewers. Bill Clinton hat to. Many believe it was Hillary who pulled him through. Unlike Ms Gary Hart, whose Senator husband’s scandalous adultery crushed his hopes of presidency during the previous election campaign, Hillary Clinton came up to defend her marriage like a tigress. First she appeared together with Bill on the popular |60 minutes» programme, and then alone on ABC’s «Prime Time Live». When millions of viewers across America heard Bill Clinton owning up to «wrongdoing» and taking the blame for whatever problems they had had in their married life, Hillary came up with her own version of the events: «Yes, there were bad times in our family life, but we weathered therm together. I think such things happen in every family».

In this traumatic situation Hillary behaved with dignity and earned general sympathy. At any rate in March, when Phil Donahue asked Bill Clinton about his relations with Jennifer, the audience hissed him. Anyway, it did not prevent Penthouse from publishing, already after Clinton’s landslide victory, Jennifer’s memoirs and naked photos, for which she rumored to have received $100,000. In her lengthy story, Flowers rated Clinton 9 out of a possible 10 as a lover. The east obscene passage in her memoirs reads as follows: «We made love everywhere: on the floor, in bed, in the kitchen, on the sink».

#Lapses and achievements

Hillary was not always such a great help. She made bad mistakes, to. «I am not some lift;e wife standing by her man, like Tammy Wynette,» she said in January. IT sounded offensive not only to popular country music star, whose «Stand by Your Man» was a major hit )Hillary had to apologize to Tammy Wynette), but also to numerous country music fans and the general public.

In march Hillary enraged everyone by saying angrily, in reply to an anchor’s question about her professional activities, «I suppose I could have stayed home, baked cookies and had teas». Even some of Hillary’s admirers renounced her after that. Some 20 newspaper articles compared her to Lady Macbeth.
 
The Republicans, too, have thrown in some black paint by unearthing Hillary’s feminist essay of 20 years back in which she allegedly likened marriage to slavery and encouraged children to sue their parents, In August, during their Convention, the republicans attacked the wife of the Democratic candidate so furiously Bill Clinton wondered aloud whether «George Bush was running for First Lady».

The Republicans carried in a little too far, and the media came to Hillary’s defense. Once aging she became immensely popular. Also, she proved to be a good learner. By the time the presidential election show was winding up, she had corrected all her mistakes and appeared before the American public not only as a tough career woman, as a painted by the Republicans, but also as a caring wife and mother. Before, Hillary sometimes took longer to introduce her husband than he did ti deliver his speech. Towards the end she was often seen standing at the back of the stage and looking at Bill with a convincing imitation of the Nancy Reagan gaze.

#A housewife?

Unlike the majority of America’s First Ladies, Hillary Clinton has never been a housewife. According to her husband, « We have two careers in our family». And yet being a hostess in the White House has always been the main occupation for all presidential  spouses. Hillary has already announced she will give up her law practice, which is only natural in her present situation.()ow the Americans are wondering if Hillary will ( ) able to change the traditional role of the president’s wife, or the role would change her.

After his election victory, Bill Clinton predicted Hillary would be «one of the greatest First Ladies in the history of the republic». While newspaper ()re busy speculating which fashion designer the new First lady will choose, people at large seem to care more about Hillary’s relations with her president husband that with haute couture.

At the beginning of his election campaign, Bill Clinton said he would like to appoint his wife to () top administration position, possibly a cabinet post. But when polls indicated idea did not appeal to the public Hillary began saying, in one interview after another, she did not care for a cabinet post and would prefer to be «a voice for children ad families in the White House». Bill’s close friends make jokes  saying where is no point in charging Hillary with just one mission hen she is able to take charge of them all.

A short time ago the American press discussed whether or not Clinton would appoint his wife to any special commission. Hillary rejected the idea saying she would be helping her husband to carry out his electoral program me insofar as a domestic policies were concerned. since her husband’s victory, she has not met journalists to totals about her plans in detail.

One of get few public appearances in November was during  Bill Clinton’s and Al Gore’s meeting with Congressional leaders to discuss the situation in the country. The presence of Hillary Clinton was regarded by reporters as a clear indication of the role age is preparing for herself.

Astrologist say Americans presidents are usually the Fishes, the Crabs and the Scorpions. As a Lion, the president-elect might be hampered by such typical Lion’s traits as ambition, a desire to be universally loved, and inability to act resolutely. As a Scorpion, the president’s wife has all the complementing qualities and can be expected to have a great influence on him. According to astrologist, their partnership might me well become an example for 21st-century couples.

It is noteworthily that Hillary’s friends were convinced the nation would hear more of that woman, no matter what the result of the presidential election might be. Addressing Los Angeles voters,  Hillary Clinton said:»We’ll have a woman president by 2010». «Would you consider running?» someone asked immediately. «We’ll talk later,: Hillary Clintos answered.